welcome to Sam's business growth show
I'm Sam Dunning additional marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as I'll be
interviewing business leaders experts
and entrepreneurs from around the globe
you'll be learning that story our
digital marketing has helped them along
the way and exclusive tips insights to
help you skyrocket your own business
[Music]
and welcome back to the show I'm
delighted to be joined by Mark metree
today
mark is a Forbes featured keynote
speaker he's appeared an Amazon Prime
documentary series marks host of the top
100 podcast humans 2.0 with a huge 50
million downloads he interviews renowned
world-class humans such as Gary
Vaynerchuk Louis Holmes Tim Ferriss and
many more across the 500 episodes plus
he's done so far he's a best-selling
author of screw being shy and he's an
international TEDx keynote speaker a
podcaster LinkedIn strategist and also
international keynote speaker mark
welcome to the show man how you doing
Sam dude I am doing pretty good man
thanks for having me on thanks for
reading off that I'm data that's super
interesting intro I I try my best to be
those things and yeah just a normal guy
trying to live through interesting times
trying to be as helpful as I can for
people thanks mate and looking forward
to our chat today so this there's a lot
of wanna cover with yourself mark I
really love to learn your story so how
you got to where you are now and some of
the lessons that you learn along the way
we want to learn your top business great
strategies so some of the strategies use
utilized to do some of the awesome
things I've just read through there and
sometimes building up your podcast
releasing a number one book and many
more and your top or ultimate rather
dish your marketing strategies so some
of the main channels that you've honed
in and to be such a success so if we
could start from the top mark if we
could learn a bit more about yourself
Wagyu rut and just a bit more about how
you got into the business world please
my friend yeah of course so for me my
parents my family's originally from
Egypt and they emigrated to the u.s. to
America like a year or two before I was
born and they came to this country with
like $200 in their pocket didn't speak
the language so I'm very much like a
first-generation American didn't have
any kind of connect connections no
network nothing
like that and I remember growing up as a
kid just being a super crafty kid like
tryna I collect different kinds of
baseball cards pokemon cards trying to
sell those just kind of like just
collect like just some random kids like
do some really interesting stuff and um
for me I ran into some some struggles
relating towards uh social anxiety
mental health physical health when I was
around like 10 11 years old that uh that
definitely placed a lot of boundaries on
my life definitely influenced my life
now that I've gone older and I'm looking
back at it today and you know one of the
ways that I was just coping through that
you know I didn't really have a lot of
friends wasn't really a part of many
group activities I kind of got the tail
end of a lot of racism things like that
one of the ways that I was coping with
that was I remember I got my first
summer job when I was like 11 or 12 and
I saved up enough money and I bought a
phone and I also bought like a little
laptop and ever since then I've just
like been using the internet to either
learn to start like different websites I
began to learn how to code apps when the
iPhone first came out I had like some
YouTube channels when I was a kid like
way back in like 2011 that one thing one
of them had like thirty five thousand
subscribers and I just did like so many
like little random things that's pretty
good man so what was it was the first
job that you had that you got the cash
later to do these things with I was
literally swept floors and do the dishes
at a pizza store already sounds like I
made $3 an hour stuff so you've saved up
and you work through that and saved up
enough money to get yourself a phone
some computer stuff in you start a
YouTube channel 35 K is not a bad
subscriber limit especially for so a
young kid it's pretty decent especially
back then to like YouTube YouTube wasn't
even YouTube like there was maybe nobody
had like over a million followers
Garber's I remember like when I told
people about it they were like well you
post videos of yourself on the internet
it was just like a crazy thing even
though I'm a still a young guy I still
remember when I was just so foreign and
it was just so weird
- a lot of people wasn't in the
mainstream but now everyone you know
it's doing yeah I think for me probably
the first the first real venture that I
had was pretty successful was I ended up
starting this little community this
minecraft server ok 2013 when I was
about 15 years old and you know honestly
long story short after like a year it
became the world's number one minecraft
server
I started making like six figures we had
like 10 million people on our website it
was like some crazy thing that was my
the first time that was like my first
little successful venture and like that
opened up a lot of other things and my
first bunch of them yeah no definitely
not oh it's pretty fun to know so I'm
really funded I've never played
minecraft I've got friends that played
it and it looks like quite a cool game
so how are you able to make that into
such a success and make it turn over six
figures that's amazing dude yeah thank
you man so I remember just remember just
like playing this game with my friends
and we were just trying to play together
in like the same community on the same
server and I remember all the ones that
we had previously joins they all just
sucked they were slow they were lacking
they didn't really have the things that
I wanted to do and so it's just like a
very casual thing I was just like all
right the next day I just kind of
googled and I figured out how to start
the server and at first it was just me
and some of my friends that I had met we
were just playing and then eventually we
decided to open it up to the public and
that's where it kind of really took on
life of its own that's where we got a
lot of people in our community that
began to contribute ideas features
eventually we began to hire people we
made like a little online store
eventually people started to buy things
like
with different micro digital
transactions through the game and and
yeah I mean that that's really how it
began - to start it took on again a
whole life of its own
I think at one point on our staff team
we had like 40 people we had multiple
servers we had like a whole network we
had like a clothing line
we like partnered with a non-profit to
like help them raise money for like a
summer it was just so really it was a
blast man it was super super interesting
and it's it's funny because I don't I
don't really play minecraft today I
don't really play too many video games
but a lot of those same early elements
that I had learned early on are like the
same exact modalities that I used today
to grow like marketing wise
business-wise
so it was like a quite an early little
lesson at least professionally speaking
and also personally speaking to
definitely I mean it sounds like from
what you've said there marks that you
you had the issue with the game lag and
the game problems and slow fix and
things like that that you you then
utilized your own system it sounds like
you built up your own minecraft
community started hiring guys and yeah
made it made it a success from from your
own version of it which sounds awesome
so well there any I guess there are a
whole bunch of and business lessons that
you learn how long were you doing that
for mark and you must have learnt stuff
pretty quickly in terms of being able to
monetize things being able to hire
people being able to earn money and so
forth yeah so I started from 2013
November of 2013 and I not got rid of it
but I I don't own it anymore and I gave
that up in about the beginning of 2019
actually I know I wasn't managing it
previously I had someone else managing
it but I was just it's time for me to
move on yeah I mean I learned so many
things I learned the reality of what it
means to actually run a business in
terms of like especially if you have
like a bigger business or just people
that look up to you and you have a
community and something goes wrong I
mean that is terrifying and I had to
like I remember so many times where
yeah I mean obviously it wasn't like
life or death but there were a lot of
times where it was me staying up all
night trying to fix these issues it was
me waking up in the morning and first
thing I did when I wake up is go check
to see what things were happening you
know so like there were so many
different fires but I had to put out and
it just um you know just kind of taught
me the the humility and radical truth of
just what it means to be a an
entrepreneur why don't you take it I
think probably the second thing that
I've learned is that um you know I I
found that the real especially if you
were if you're like just starting out a
business and it's like just you but even
more so when you have employees I think
the real growth of your business has to
do with the growth of who you are as a
operator as an owner when it comes to
your psychology when it comes to your
health when it comes to your mindset a
lot of these things and there were many
times where I kind of realized like if I
had focused on myself a little bit more
like when it came to my my health
physical my mental health I probably
would have been able to do better things
and bigger things but I think a lot of
us especially as entrepreneurs we we get
in this very narrow angle of like just
developing our business and not
developing ourselves and the reality is
is those two are heavily heavily
correlated it's almost like a mirror and
so if you're neglecting one or the other
then you're not gonna see you know a
tremendous amount of growth and like on
my podcast for example I've had on
people from like the co-founder of
Netflix two billionaires two really
really successful entrepreneurs and
business men and women who have told me
that that's the truth of like so many
times where they could have felt like
they could have done more in the long
term if they just stopped rested maybe
learned researched and figured out how
do I best put myself in a cycle
logically in a physically in a mentally
in an emotionally and spiritually
healthier way because that growth is
directly correlated to the growth of
your business and so a lot of it has to
do with a lot of things that I talked
about now like the book that I wrote
called the screw being shy it's all
about how how do you be yourself in
front of other people people who
struggle with shyness social anxiety it
talks a lot on mental health I've had a
lot of like business entrepreneurs
endorsed my book and say that it's a
good blueprint for the average
entrepreneurs mental health because I'm
you know the really interesting part was
at the time when I was probably making
the most money younger that was also
probably when I was running into the
biggest kind of underlying emotional
issues because I'm gonna you know
eventually I think I think we're all
born as humans and we're all trying to
find our version of success and
sometimes that gets very narrowly
defined in maybe our business success or
maybe you know if we have a significant
partner but I think a lot of us neglect
some of these other things that just
make us human that really impact our
performance on a day-to-day basis deep
down and so you know those lessons that
I learned early on where even though I
was a kid but I saw different parts of
my health deteriorate despite the fact
that I was successful has really taught
me now the importance of that and you
know I'm just trying my best and
hopefully in the future as I get more
successful I don't forget that so love
it and I love what you've just said them
are developing yourself as well as your
business so I think most of us at times
have been guilty on just thinking that
we've got a certain project or a certain
sale or something we're so focused on
doing but at the same time we forget
about our own health so you might skip
go out for a run skipping out for Jim
skip go out for a walk or something like
that I'll skip a meal and it's easy done
isn't it when you're so focused on
getting something done then you don't
realize you're becoming tired lethargic
or you're getting hungry thirsty so I
know exactly what you asked that's a
really really great point well mate okay
so
you did this minecraft business somewhat
that went pretty good and then he passed
that over did you and moved on to
something else or what was next month
yeah I pastored I'm moving on to
something else and the next business
that I started from that was a marketing
agency that's specifically focused on
businesses in the exponential technology
sector so companies and virtual reality
augmented reality blockchain IOT AI and
you know that's that's pivoted we've
shifted that from from what that is but
that was other business that I started
in 2016 it was about three four years
after that minecraft server and you know
major part of that was because one I am
I love at technology in the sense of you
know I like if I think I feel like if
you study human history and you look at
overall what has improved the life of
the average human a large part of that
has to do with the various distribution
of Technology and I'm super interested
about that especially how that can
interplay with our mind so I have that
passion and also when I kind of looked
at what I had been doing for the past 10
years I mean a lot of it was was
marketing I remember I had a like a
website and like way early like in 2008
I was on social media I was freelancing
I was trying to find ways to make money
online and today whether it's like via
my podcast or or like my speaking career
or my book or the or anything I'm trying
to promote a lot of these like marketing
fundamentals that I've learned have just
come from me doing it and failing and
experimenting through the last ten years
and so I definitely consider myself a
marketer and I just try to you know use
those skills to the best of my ability
towards conscious businesses and
organizations so yeah the sort of
marketing agency a little bit after
I ended up starting my podcast a little
bit after that I ended up you know kind
of going into a thousand different
things and desserts open paths yeah
before we kind of get to the present day
mark yeah there any so you mentioned
that you were you're freelancing a bit
you were doing Girish gigs to earn money
and are there any lessons in marketing
perhaps that you could show us maybe you
did in the virtual reality company or
you said you you like to go into things
headfirst you'd like to start doing it
and then learn as you go so any a
business letters or marketing lessons
that you can share less on that front
before we move into how you started the
podcast yeah for sure you know this is
the lesson that I've learned but I have
heard it said in in the right language
by Seth Godin Seth Godin obviously
marketing business legend I I've
interviewed him on my podcast a great
guy and he says that the difference
between a freelancer who makes $5 an
hour versus like a top
like world expert that can make like
$5,000 an hour or more than that is
their story is how they frame themselves
in the sense of when people buy into you
they don't just buy into the skills that
you can give them they buy into what it
has taken for you to learn those skills
and a lot of companies are willing to
pay a lot more money to get that
credibility to get that truth to get
that story from someone who has been
able to kind of do it in their own way
and you know that's a topic I'm super
interested about talking about even more
because you know I was freelancing way
early on when nobody knew who I was just
like making websites I'm making apps
eventually I got into social media and
stuff and it was a good start but I was
making you know dollars you know pennies
on the dollar
and now today it's super interesting to
see a lot of other freelancers kind of
just getting into the market especially
if there is um you know economic
insecurity where people are trying to
develop more than one income stream and
just trying to find a way for people to
you know how do you make a brand off
that you know how do you go from someone
who is just selling hours of your time
to do these skills kind of more
black-and-white work to developing a
brand gaining credibility becoming a
world top expert and then being able to
command that top dollar so that's been a
major interest of mine like lately since
like the last month or two but but yeah
that's definitely a key key lesson that
I have learned and especially for
younger people to like I feel like a lot
of people whether you're in your 20s or
30s a lot of us think that whether it's
due to our past a lot of us think that
there's no way we could get to the top
of our industry or the top of our field
unless we're like forties fifties
sixties and that's just not the truth
you know the reality is is that the
world cares about results and if you can
actually give people results people
don't care how old you are you know and
so that's been a major less than I've
been trying to get out there in terms of
like the marketing kind of freelance
world love it love it yeah I mean
storytelling's of course a huge thing in
business is a huge thing in sales if you
can paint a vivid picture in people's
minds of what you're offering it just
helps them get an understanding of it
it's so much better is that something
you like to do mark when you're doing
business in terms of building stories
with prospective customers or people
that you're good perhaps signing up for
advertisement for your podcast or those
kind of things yeah definitely so um so
one of the things that I do is I run
this podcast acceleration program where
I help someone start a podcast I have
clients of mine that have podcasts that
are in like the top 20 of their industry
and then also how podcasters grow their
already existing show and and when I
actually look at a lot of my clients are
introverts a lot of my clients are
introverts just like I am
and a major part of that is helping them
like be able to tell their story and
I've had on people who I've had on
clients who have literally been uh I had
this one client who's actually a
billionaire in the UK and she has like
so many different kinds of successes but
she's never really told her her story
and even someone like that where they
are an older gentleman or lady who have
a lot of business success a lot of them
when it comes to like storytelling it
seems almost pretty foreign and so
honestly when it comes to that and kind
of sharing it online I really do think
that's a skill that someone has got to
develop because unless you grew up as
like a great storyteller being able to
take people down a vivid path like you
said it's a very much a muscle that you
have to build in and a lot of people I
like a lot of my clients that are multi
millionaires a lot of them are extremely
successful but now they're in the spot
of like hey I've made the money that I
want to make now I'm like trying to
spread this message I'm trying to spread
this movement and a lot of the times you
cannot do that unless the people know
the story behind the person because
whenever you know what I tell people is
it's not about just like randomly
talking about yourself on the internet
you know it's not about randomly sharing
stories of yourself the one rule is
share your story if it can help someone
else the same way that when I kind of
felt myself in a not so great time in my
life I was able to look at other
people's stories who were in my position
who were able to find their own path to
climb out of that and whether you can
copy different elements or get inspired
by that that is a major way of how human
beings have been sharing data facts
statistics knowledge through the vehicle
of stories and so that's a major part of
what it is I do for sure that's really
interesting man and I've been looking at
some of your LinkedIn posts and some of
the content that you put out and it's
really well structured it's really well
put together but most important it gets
huge engagement
so yeah would you say that's come down
to the fact that you have interviewed
these experts with ease the one that
these the people that gave you this this
skill was it something you honed in
yourself by reading books perhaps or by
listening to podcasts or by watching
videos what helped you to hone in on
those skills you can perhaps share with
our audience yeah that's so that's a
beautiful question man I think I think
it's idea I think it's an accumulation
of everything you said um you know I I
think it comes from trial and error by
myself just in my own life I think it
comes from reading a lot of books I
remember when I was a kid I used to
write a lot of fiction not nonfiction
and so I feel like if you have some
grasp on being able to live in a
different worlds that you that you that
you read in like a comic book or you
watching a movie you can take a lot of
these elements and bring them in and
like I know a lot of my friends who are
marketers who are like world-class
marketers who have said like some of the
best books that you can read to learn
how to market yourself better or not our
fiction books excuse me our books that
are there like these mystical worlds and
stories and so obviously you need a mix
of that and then also non-fiction books
you know so you know reading books but
people like Seth Godin and people like
that that can help you teach your story
super super interesting and obviously
the biggest thing is just um is just
experimentation you know I've been
posting mostly every single day on
LinkedIn ever since 2017 and not always
I talk about my story sometimes I talk
about other people's stories sometimes I
don't talk about my story at all and so
that that can come hand in hand I think
one part is uh for sure like my story
and the contents of my post I a it's a
major part of it but then I also think
that there are a lot of like more
tactical things more tactical strategies
that you can do specifically on on
LinkedIn and you know that's why I'm a
LinkedIn strategist I also I have a
course on LinkedIn that people can take
and I kind of walk through how I've been
able to really build the significant
platform because LinkedIn for me has
probably been the number one grower of
my podcast it's probably the number one
grower of my business and quite frankly
it's probably been the number one grower
of all my relationships like some of the
most important people in my life now
from business partners to major clients
to just friends that I've met have come
from LinkedIn and so yeah it's such a
powerful platform for sure
I can relate to that so much man and
like you say is such a good place now to
connect with people and it's how I got
in touch with you to get you on the
podcast it's how I get most of my day
nice so without that platform might be
pretty screwed let's say so so moving on
mark I'd love to know I'm sure the
everyone tuning it would love to know a
bit more behind why you started your
podcast and how you've been able to
build up to the success that it is now
yeah man absolutely so what I was
telling you before is um I kind of began
to gain some my external financial
success in about 2013 2014 personally
speaking that made me actually way more
confused and by the time 2015 came I was
um trying to live my life but I fell
down a pretty dark spiral my life where
um I be kidding I got obese my lifelong
social anxiety that I always had kind of
transformed into social isolation I
began to get depressed for the first
time in my life and actually I at one
point was a suicidal and so that for me
was like a rock bottom in my life in
2015 and eventually I I was able to
climb out of them 2016 like I said
towards the end of that year I started
my business and in the middle of 2017
that is where I got the idea to start my
podcast and the reason why was because I
was just starting to live kind of like
this new version of my life that I call
it I was trying to move on my own path
be my authentic self be healthy from a
physical mental emotional spiritual
standpoint and you know for anyone else
who's also on that journey
it can be extremely hard but it's also
very rewarding and fulfilling so I was
smack dab in the middle of that journey
and I was just having a ton of problems
in many different areas of my life in
terms of my health in terms of my
relationships in terms of my business
that I didn't know how to solve and so
just looking back on my life I learned
that other than doing and experimenting
one of the most powerful ways to learn
something is to have a one-on-one
conversation with someone who can sit
down with you and they can teach you
what they've done who is an expert or
who is someone who has ample experience
and their own story can kind of reflect
yours
and so honestly I just started my
podcast as a way to get me around those
people and like if you look at my
podcast I go through like different
waves of like you know I got into
meditation and then I reached out to
like the 10 top world experts on
meditation and I asked them how do you
meditate I got into nutrition and using
the power of food for performance and
mental health then I interviewed the top
doctors and neuroscientists and
nutritional psychologists that talked
about these things and so really for me
my podcast really started as just like
my own exploration self-development tool
and then obviously throughout the years
it's definitely helped me when it comes
to like building out my brands helping
me market any kind of idea or my book or
a service that I want to put out there
and so yeah I really just started it
just for like the very selfish purpose
of trying to help myself but as you
continue to do that and you get people
to listen then eventually people say you
know I I struggled with these same
issues and I listen to your podcast
episode with this person and it helped
me rethink things and so it also became
almost like a um like a system or a
journey that other people can join in on
and learn the same things that I was
learning and kind of do they're kind of
like start their own version of a past
and so yeah now it's just kind of taking
on a life
it's owned now it's like this crazy
thing but back then the only reason why
I started it was just to just to learn
myself like to create my own little
education system because I felt like I
didn't have the resources around myself
to do it at that time no that's a great
story man so it started off really for
your own like you say one to one
interviews with people when really
topics that you wanted to learn more
about yourself and it sounds like from
there it started growing people started
reaching out to you with similar
experiences asking you questions which
is great so where when came the point
mark when you thought I could actually
make a business out of this or I could
start promoting my other service my
other products when was that stage yeah
and how long how far in we yeah so so I
remember when my podcast really began to
blow up and pop towards the end of 2018
and that was the time where I just
really began to just understand its
potential you know I had different
people who are reaching out to me I had
different fortune 500 companies who are
reaching out to me asking me how you
know how do I do this can they hire me
to do that people more interested about
like me cuz you know even at that time I
really didn't talked that much about
myself and it was only until I had so
many people asking me like wait who are
you you know like what why are you doing
this and so when that kind of stuff
happened in 2019 like just last year
that is really aware um I was able to
integrate the podcast in many different
business professional areas in my life
you know at first it kind of came
through me just not even talking about
it and people just coming to me and
saying like you know you your podcast
has taken off can you help my company do
this can you help me start my own
podcast or I have a podcast but I don't
know how to take it and scale it to the
next level and so some of it just kind
of came organically but it really wasn't
until the beginning of 2019 where a lot
of companies just started to reach out
to me to hire me to be a speaker like
all over the world that's why I was in
like before we were chatting this while
I was in London last year going on and
then and then that with that comes you
know
you meeting a lot of business leaders a
lot of CEOs of a lot of major companies
asking you to do that too and so we kind
of like very much just happen
organically and then as the months have
passed by then that's when I started to
kind of formalize more things I created
the podcast accelerator I kind of
created that LinkedIn course and I sort
of began to help people in the more
public eye about this for sure so I mean
and were you in the early stages mark
where you marketing the podcast much
itself were you ramping it up on
LinkedIn and promoting it there were
other social channels we're doing things
like email marketing to be able to get
to a stage where a lot of people knew
about the podcast and then they
eventually started reaching out to you
yeah so honestly the the biggest the
biggest marketing that I really took on
was by two things I one was at the
beginning of 2018 I remember just
looking at the state of my podcast and I
had like just kind of started at this
time I wasn't really taking it seriously
and I remember just like thinking to
myself like you know I I enjoy doing
this a lot and I remember looking out
there at the other podcasts who had also
started podcasts and what I realized was
nobody was really taking this podcast
thing seriously a lot of companies had
just sort of started it just to have
sort of another arm in their marketing
department which is totally fine nothing
wrong with that everyone has different
priorities and goals but I realize the
people who were taking it seriously
everybody knew about them and so the
beginning of 2018 remember I had this
moment with myself where I was like I
really got to start taking this podcast
seriously and that's when I remember
like learning about LinkedIn I remember
getting more serious about it in the
sense of I started to reach out to more
guests I started to like upload episodes
much more frequently I went from like
doing one every two weeks to do in three
every week so then eventually raising
that even more and it was eventually
like just through that frequency through
me putting the reps
and then also using LinkedIn as both um
you know like what you said both reach
out like reaching out to people because
what I realized was I'm a lot of
entrepreneurs a lot of people who have
big brands they may have like five
hundred thousand followers on Instagram
or they may have a million or two but
they probably only have like 25,000 or
30,000 followers on LinkedIn and so I
really used LinkedIn as a backdoor
entrance to get me in touch with a lot
of really influential people at least
the beginning now LinkedIn is like much
more saturated there's a lot more people
on there now so now it's a little hard
but this still stands true and then I
just began to like promoted like every
single day in like a very organic way in
the sense of like I I interviewed
someone who was a LinkedIn expert like
way early on and I was like hey guys
here are three tips that I broken down
and distilled from my podcast interview
and so I it was very much just like me
highlighting other people's stories me
highlighting other people's expertise
throughout the years then eventually
then like I said people then began to
ask me like wait who are you and then I
would you know have have my team make
like different like little podcasts
video snippets I had my team kind of
break down like this very like
intellectual information heavy
information into like visually appealing
pictures that I could post on my
LinkedIn in my Instagram and so it was
it was a lot of that and yeah I mean
probably the the first time where I'd
say I I really saw a lot of impact on
LinkedIn so to speak was remember it was
after I interviewed Seth Godin and I
remember I put up a little micro video
of like 60 seconds of him talking about
I remember what it was I think it was
like the education system or something
and I remember I put that up on there
and that video just totally blew up I
remember I had something like something
like 750,000 views like thousands of
likes and the really interesting part
about that wasn't just the fact that it
got a ton of attention but it was the
fact that I had people who I reached out
to me who weren't even connected with me
at all who sent me screenshots of their
phone of they were connected to Seth
Godin they were in Seth Godin Network
and eventually what I learned about
LinkedIn is if you tagged someone in
your video even if they don't see it
even if they don't respond to it then
LinkedIn will eventually show people in
Seth codons Network the video that they
were tagged in that I posted and so all
of a sudden I had these major business
leaders these CMOS these massive
marketers reach out to me because they
all knew Seth Godin and now some of them
were more curious and interested about
learning about me and so that for me was
really where I began to realize the
power of LinkedIn and then I just like
went all in and like today i have a
twitter i have an instagram i have a
facebook but linked it for me is the
main thing because i would rather just
you know of course take an omni-channel
approach to everything just to Sasha
going in many spots but really I you
know especially if you have limited
resources if you go all-in and you
become well-known in that area then you
can use that to grow your other channels
your email your podcast - and then the
other thing that I'll say is that um the
podcast was really an invaluable
marketing tool in the sense of let's say
I post let's say I post on LinkedIn or I
post on Instagram and obviously I don't
own those platforms so if the algorithm
changes maybe my followers don't see my
post they don't see my message but
obviously on email you don't have that
and on podcasting - when someone hits to
subscribe to your show they're listening
to your episodes even if they don't even
check their social media and so it just
becomes a sort of another off channel
approach that isn't connected to social
media where people can still be reminded
of your message and your content so love
it and yeah and the last thing I say if
I can uh you know I I know a lot of
podcasters who
have way bigger podcast than me who are
who have way bigger shows than me who
are real at the top level and I've had a
lot of chance at them and really the
number one way to grow your podcast is
to actually be a good host and what I
mean by that is like podcasting is one
of those things where even if you walk
in to this industry with a massive
budget to put behind paid advertising
that's only gonna go so far if your
podcast episodes suck and the number one
like the best form of marketing is word
of mouth and so really people only share
podcasts when they listen to it they
realize that the host knows what they're
talking about they actually care about
what they're doing they've like done the
research on the guest and then they it
makes for a good interview and then that
person goes and tells their friends
about it you know that's how all
podcasts grow at the end of the day and
like that's how you've seen like there
have been many billion dollar companies
who have stepped into the podcasting who
have thrown up a ton of money behind it
but yet it's still not as big as my
podcast for example or other people's
podcasts because they just their hosts
just doesn't have the heart they don't
have the mind they don't have the
humility the spirit that actually shows
people behind it and so yeah I mean a
lot of it is it can be taxable but then
a lot of it is just like what are you
actually talking about how are you
seeing it on your show so all that stuff
kind of comes in together
great stuff mark you've dropped some
absolutely gold down my friend
so in terms of LinkedIn in terms of
podcasting a few things I'd love to
discuss a little further the first point
you made about LinkedIn being a backdoor
entrance I love that and I'd agree
actually even though at the time this
episode would go out we'll be within 50
episodes dropped but we've been
fortunate enough to get some really big
guests and in a short space of time and
nearly I'd say probably 99% of the
guests that I've managed to get on here
was all through LinkedIn so literally
connecting with them a personalized
request and and going from there really
or utilizing the networks that I already
had to get an intro to then connect with
the guests and so we've been very very
fortunate on that for I likely said a
lot of fun
a lot of people love let's say famous
people were well-known people you might
want to get onto your own podcast for
anyone tuning in may have a huge
following on Facebook a huge following
on Instagram but quite a lot of them
have quite a smaller network on LinkedIn
even today so yeah and the really
interesting part too is like um however
you said about personalizing the
connection request that's so important
but another part of it too is just the
fact that even though they may not have
that many followers a lot of these
people have like their a system or their
business manager looking at their
LinkedIn accounts because a lot of them
get business inquiries for speaking or
through other means through LinkedIn
because that's where a lot of the
business world is and so there's a good
chance that they will see your message
even if that's not where they have the
most amount of followers so that's
that's invaluable I love that you said
that love that love that and in terms of
podcast you based another good point you
can chuck all the money shovel all
the money you want into paid ads but if
the content is no good it's not gonna
get anywhere which I completely agree
with have you got any tips for anyone
that's aspiring to be a podcast or
anyone who's just set up their own
podcast on how they can actually make
the content decent this might help you
as well mark so is it about asking good
questions is it about being upbeat it
was about being curious of what would
you say is the way to go yeah so there
are a few things um
one I would say to realize that you're
probably not gonna become the next Gary
Vee or like the next joe rogan and so a
lot of people just start podcast just
like in hopes of one day of like making
like some massive massive audience that
could happen that's probably not gonna
happen and so I didn't the best way to
look at it is a tool so if you can look
at yourself and kind of be like what
what vehicle am i using this podcast ass
like what is what am i trying to get
with it then I think that you'll have
some directed approach to begin to use
your podcast to achieve your goals the
other thing that I would say is and I
would say to do as much research on your
podcast
just as humanly possible and the reason
why is because I've had on some podcast
guests that I've had them on my show and
we've done an interview and a lot of
these different episodes are the in some
industries in some groups of people
those are the interviews that put me on
their map and the reason why is because
it's not because of the guests you know
it's not because of the fact that you
interviewed Seth Godin because he goes
on a lot of podcasts it's the fact of
what did you guys actually talk about
and that is based on how you know them
in the research and so for me you know
any any podcast guests that I have on I
always try to read their book I always
try to you know watch or listen to their
TED talk I always try to take the course
I always tried to just do as much as I
possibly can with the restraints and the
resources that I have to understand them
as much as possible because what I've
learned is and I've just sort of learned
this recently when my book came out and
I kind of went on the depressed circuit
and rounds and I had so many people
interview me where you really do
understand that some people interview
you and they actually know you you may
actually care about the conversation and
there are other people that just
interview you just for the sake of
interviewing you for marketing to who to
like put their name next to yours and
the reality is is that your guests can
tell especially if there's someone who
was well known someone who has been
around the block so to speak and so
depending on what side they perceive
from you that will depend on what and
how the interview goes if you come at it
from just that press marketing angle
they're gonna give you very shallow
answers that they always give that they
give on every single interview and so if
someone knows who they are they're
listening to it even if you've had on
the best guest that interview is not
gonna stick out but if you can sort of
get to that person and like kind of like
help them realize that
then that's super-powerful like so for
example on my show a question that I
asked my guests beforehand before we
start recording and I learned this from
Lois house is is there anything in your
mind that would make this podcast
episode interview extremely powerful for
my audience and whether that's like a
specific thing or just to set the
intention in their mind that really
helps and like I've had people who have
said like dude I've been interviewed
like six times by Forbes and they have
never asked me that and so when you say
sat you say something that can convey
intention towards your guests they
automatically know that okay this is
gonna be a different kind of interview
I'm actually gonna reveal the authentic
version of myself and that's how you get
amazing great content so that's like one
of the best ways that I would kind of
say to someone if they want to start a
podcast and the best way to do it go to
so do as much research as possible it
sounds like so whether that's reading
that book reading articles on about them
online doing their courses whatever that
whatever material they've got to offer
then making sure you get stuck in and
really understand the work they've done
and a bit more about that person yeah
and it's hard you know like there's a
reason why most people don't do it you
know I like I would be lying if I said
I've done that to every single one of my
guests you know like that's just the
reality
if you nature to and like I think the
last thing that I would say to is like
listen to other podcast interviews that
they have been on and you can kind of
see what they've talked about in the
past what they're used to talking about
you can see if an interview went well or
didn't go well depending on the
questions and so at minimum listen to
other interviews and then don't just
copy that interview fault kind of found
like your own unique path to that
interview so if that made sense makes
perfect sense man so do proper research
as much as you can by the sounds of it
and set a tone so you've put down a
really good question that I've just made
an oath is there anything in a mind that
would make this interview extremely
powerful that's a really good question
I'm gonna steal that if you don't mind
and I'm sure many people would say yeah
some people will give you specific
answers
they'll say you know what yet this has
been top of mind and some article will
say you know kind of know and like
that's where you kind of say I'm you
know this question is more or less to
set the intention of what we're gonna be
doing and and like the really
interesting part about that too that's
so important is especially if you're
doing these things like virtually - you
don't know what was on my calendar
before or after this you know you don't
know if I just came out of like a super
intense business meeting or if I have
just been doing nothing all day and so
some people's minds may be in a totally
different spot than actually
interviewing but when you ask that
question in the beginning it just kind
of like okay like let me like actually
focus on what we're gonna be doing here
for the next 45 minutes so that it's
meaningful and it actually makes it
worthy for your audience and for my time
too so that's a massive piece of it -
love it love it okay mark you've dropped
some absolute value bomb so far we're
coming close to the end before that I
want to know and I'm sure everyone
tuning you would like to know how did
you go about it sounded like Seth Godin
was perhaps one of the biggest guests
you've got on first correct me if I'm
wrong then caused a ripple effect then
these bigger guests because you said you
put that video on LinkedIn that Bloor
I've got nearly a million views or so
all these people start connecting me
getting it up saying look mark and we
want to go on your show and so how did
you get him on that's let's move let's
hear it man if we may
yeah this is this is it man so I
remember so remember I introduced
someone that day and this guy was a well
seasoned podcaster very well known and
he was telling me that um he was telling
me that like I was kind of asking him
like how do you get on big guests that
was like my general question and he kind
of like ran me through some different
scenarios of previous guests and
previous stories that he's had on and he
told me that in order to have Seth Godin
on his show Seth told him that he needed
to have like a minimum of like 400
episodes and then also he had to email
Seth and like ask him like 50 different
times throughout like the course of
three years and I remember just like
thinking about that and after the
interview was
I remember just like looking back and
just being like you know what I'm gonna
try to go for this and I think my show
was that like I think I had done like a
hundred episodes or like it was just
under that it was like 80 or something
I'm not sure and I remember I just sat
down I whipped on my laptop I started
writing this email to Seth Godin and I
told him you know hey Seth a big fan of
your work you know I remember when I
read this book of yours it totally
changed how I represented myself on the
Internet and I had this podcast and I've
interviewed this person that person and
this person who I know know Seth Godin
like our friends with him in real life
who I've had on my show and then I like
just told them just like a little bit
about like myself like a little bit
about my background and I remember he
responded back in like 17 minutes and he
said yeah let's do it are you free
tomorrow I like 11 I was like all right
well let's do it and so it was like a
very like quick immediate thing and I
think the real thing that I realize
right then and there was just the power
of like cause and effect of like I had
heard this idea from this one guy and
then took this idea and I just I just
did it I just wrote it out and then I
got an immediate answer 15 minutes later
and then the next day I interviewed him
and so it was very much just like a UH
anything is possible you can have anyone
on your show you can do anything all you
have to do is you have to go for it
you have to learn a little bit if to be
smart about it if to do your research
and you also have to realize that it's
gonna be yes as a knows you know if Seth
Godin then say yes to me I'm sure he
would have said yes at some other point
you know who knows me after 400 episodes
but but but that's really it it really
taught me that that all these things are
kind of possible and yeah I mean ever
since then I've had on a ton of crazy
you well known guests that are actually
worth their weight and worth their salt
for for what they speak on and so yeah
it's been a crazy journey but that for
me was like the first thing that just
taught my brain of like okay you can you
can do anything on your podcast
awesome man it sounded like that email
you put together had a bit of everything
it sounded like it told a bit of your
story it took it had things that Seth
could perhaps relate to you because you
knew guests we had guests on your show
that he was actually connected to and
yeah just dropped all these different
different bits and pieces about what
you've done how you can bring him one
and guess that he could relate to and
then he replied quickly so obviously did
the trick and yeah I can completely
agree that you've got here and a certain
amount of knowns before you here yes and
that's that's more likely to be the case
with the more reputable people and we're
well-known people you're reaching up for
and and that makes perfect sense okay
man well yeah we've learnt some great
stuff in terms of how you've been able
to to scale your own business how you
scaled your podcast and how you've got
got to where you are now I'd love to
learn a bit more about the book perhaps
we can talk about that at the end I'm
aware that we're getting close to time
now so in terms of habits mark
are there any daily habits that you've
got yourself or any that you try and
stick to you that you think have been
important to your self-development or to
your success yeah for sure you know I
live in I live in Boston Massachusetts
so it's kind of like it's kind of like
the UK at times or things can be cloudy
but the best thing I've learned is uh as
early as you can if you can go for a
walk in the morning in the sunlight
preferably ideally without you like
checking every single email and every
single social media platform first and
just kind of like giving your body in
your brain space to to express a walk to
to move I find that really helps caliber
in my mind the second thing is um your
food nutrition I mean I think a lot of
people um under look this or they just
kind of briefly mention it in like
exercise and a healthy diet I honestly
think that what you put in your mouth is
probably the top three decisions that
you'll make throughout your entire day
and I'm someone who has studied a lot
about neuroscience about mental health
and the craziest part is that
a lot of the things that we do have a
lot to do with our brain and different
neurotransmitters that are firing this
this is talked about by leaders to to
mental health professionals and a key
neurotransmitter that is responsible for
controlling our mood controlling our
appetite our sleep how we talk to other
people is called serotonin and the
really interesting part about this
chemical is that 90% of it isn't even in
your brain 90% of it is in this thing
called your gut microbiome which is when
you eat food that is the first system
that processes it and then it sends it
off to the rest of your body to digest
and process and so when you actually
look like underneath the surface of
mental health a major part of this
neurotransmitter controls our mental
health and that is largely predicated on
the foods that we eat and the really
interesting part about this
unfortunately is that so for example in
Europe the European Union has like
banned over 500 different chemical
additives processed ingredients that
food manufacturers are not allowed to
put in their food but yet if you go to
America all those things are in those
supermarkets and the worst part about it
is it's by the same companies they just
make a version for Europe and they make
a version for America and so staying
clear of those processed ingredients if
you are susceptible to these issues
especially early on can be extremely
detrimental for your mental health and
for me kind of the chapter where I talk
about this in my book his called
first my gut broke and then my brain
broke and I talked about the time where
when I really fell down mentally that
was also where my gut microbiome and my
physical health suffered and so honestly
through talking to a lot of successful
people they all know this they all have
certain diet health regiments of things
they eat and things that they don't eat
and a good general rule of thumb is that
there's no such thing as a universal
healthy diet because we're all different
all of our guts are different but
staying clear of
artificial chemicals preservatives that
is a pretty good place to start and in
some places depending on where you live
that can be easier or harder than others
and so yeah definitely food look at what
you're eating in your mouth and
definitely just try to incorporate some
sort of natural movement you know of
course we all know exercise is important
sure but implementing some sort of a
natural movement we're like you're not
sitting down all day in like throughout
all your meetings for four hours like
you have to get up every while and take
a short walk maybe do some push-ups some
jumping jacks because that's how we were
all evolutionary created and if you do
that that'll set you up for high
performance and yeah last thing I'll say
about the book is I'm screw being shot
people can get it on Amazon of course
Barnes and Nobles um the audiobook the
audible version it's gonna be out within
the month or so and and yeah it's it's
been a really interesting book that I've
gotten be able to put together my first
book ever it's gotten some great
feedback became a best-seller has been
endorsed from people who are
billionaires to psychologists to
neuroscientists to a lot of amazing
people so I'm super grateful and I hope
it's helpful I hope it's helpful for
people who struggle with their mental
health who struggle with being
themselves in front of other people
cheers MA and I think I'm gonna have to
start doing press ups and jumping jacks
between zoom cools because especially in
the pandemic of phone myself pretty much
a lot to my seat and back-to-back phone
calls emails zoom coolest so I'll start
getting down and walking the dog and
doing jumping jacks and doing
self-soothe press ups every every half
hour I think it's so important man it's
so important and you'll notice the
difference too so yeah that awesome
awesome stuff so everyone you've been
tuning into Sam's business group show or
we sit down with business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you find out that story how
digital marketing has helped along the
way and its use with tips and insights
to help you skyrocket your business
smart I like to ask everyone that comes
on if you could thank just one person
either dead or alive having a positive
influence on yourself and your career
who would that be
and why I could thank anyone honestly
you
probably be my sister Maggie
she is a schoolteacher out of public
school and um you know she has really
taught me the power of what it's like
when you are happy for other people and
I remember just all throughout my life
you know she didn't tell me anything
explicitly but just seeing her behavior
on daily basis I think has really gave
me the right fundamentals and the values
that I have today that I don't even
think about that just makes me a good
person and so her for sure my mom and
dad eternally grateful for them because
I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for them
all cement and tell us a bit more about
the best way that people can connect
with yourself and get in touch of course
LinkedIn definitely if you're gonna
connect with me send me a personalized
connection request like Sam said but a
good central spot is if people just go
to my website mark metree ma RK and me t
ry comm you all see links to my email my
podcasts the book social media
everything so that's a good spot and say
thank you for having me on man this is
killer this is a great interview cheers
mark the show is sponsored by web choice
UK comm helping businesses skyrocket
their leads sales and brand positioning
via results driven SEO conversion focus
websites and mobile apps as web to issue
care calm but really appreciate it man
great to have you on
yeah man great to have you great to have
great to be on a new tired of constantly
hunting for new customers you could be
missing out on regular inbound
opportunities all because your website
isn't on the first page of Google
perhaps you already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert all of your
hard-earned visitors into a consistent
flow of new customers if you'd like to
learn more about our unusual approach
that brings idle clients straight to you
connect with Sam Dunning on LinkedIn or
book a free 20 minute consultation by a
web choice UK calm that's web choice UK
the
come subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts